---
title: "Time Flies... Where? - Router Table: Day 5"
layout: post
category: PoweredUp
---
Pondering why it takes me so long to build projects, and wondering: If time flies, where does it fly to?

*(This isn't really about the router table build, but I'm putting it under that heading anyway. Sue me. It's my blog and I can do whatever illogical thing I want.)*

I'm starting to pour through the footage I shot of [building the shop cabinet]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2019-01-21-powered-up-1-2-2 %}). I'll be trying to edit down the over 6 1/2 hours of video, to something that can become a YouTube video.

I've always wondered why it takes me so long to do projects. Since I recorded virtually all aspects of the shop cabinet build, I thought the footage might help me figure it out.

* So like I said, I've got something like 6 and a half hours of footage that relates to actually building the cabinet. Give or take.

* It took something like 2 weeks for me to build it. Give or take.

So here's my somewhat rhetorical question:

### What the heck did I do the rest of the time?

I mean, I know some of that time was waiting for glue to dry. And some of the time was spent on Steve's Facebook private forum. And blogging. And Instagram. And watching Steve's videos.

Hmmm. I'm sensing a trend here. Is it possible I spent all the rest of the time on the computer? I don't think I want to know the answer to that question...

And here I am, spending time blogging about the fact that maybe I spend too much time on the computer. That's ironic, or some such literary term. Maybe I need to look it up on Google.

Be right back...
